
# LAB: Google Cloud Fundamentals: Getting Started with Kubernetes Engine

# OBJECTIVES

In this lab, you learn how to perform the following tasks:

- Provision a Kubernetes cluster using Kubernetes Engine

- Deploy and manage Docker containers using kubectl

# PREREQUISITE

GCLOUD SDK OR CLOUD SHELL must be present and running, with all required authorization given.
Note: This project assumes you have the required tools need to run this command-line.
Hence would not go into details of Installing, Authorizing and Enabling the SDK or Cloud shell environment.
For details check the Google cloud documentation for help.

# TASK 1: PROVISION A KUBERNETES CLUSTER USING KUBERNETES ENGINE

- Start a Kubernetes Engine cluster

STEPS:

    *   For convenience, place the zone that Qwiklabs assigned you to into an environment variable called MY_ZONE

        export MY_ZONE=us-central1-a

    *   Start a Kubernetes cluster managed by Kubernetes Engine. Name the cluster webfrontend and configure it to run 2 nodes

        gcloud container clusters create webfrontend --zone $MY_ZONE --num-nodes 2

        Result:
        NAME         LOCATION       MASTER_VERSION  MASTER_IP      MACHINE_TYPE   NODE_VERSION   NUM_NODES  STATUS
        webfrontend  us-central1-a  1.15.12-gke.2   35.188.142.66  n1-standard-1  1.15.12-gke.2  2          RUNNING

    *   After the cluster is created, check your installed version of Kubernetes using the kubectl version command

        kubectl version

        Note: The gcloud container clusters create command automatically authenticated kubectl for you.

    *   View your running nodes in the GCP Console by using this command-line

        gcloud compute instances list

        Result:
        NAME                                        ZONE           MACHINE_TYPE   INTERNAL_IP EXTERNAL_IP      STATUS
        gke-webfrontend-default-pool-2d58a314-crgq  us-central1-a  n1-standard-1  10.128.0.3  34.121.34.41     RUNNING
        gke-webfrontend-default-pool-2d58a314-zr23  us-central1-a  n1-standard-1  10.128.0.2  104.198.132.185  RUNNING

# TASK 2: RUN AND DEPLOY A CONTAINER

- Create a docker container and attach a loadbalancer

STEPS:

    *   launch a single instance of the nginx container

        kubectl create deploy nginx --image=nginx:1.17.10

    *   View the pod running the nginx container

        kubectl get pods

        Result:
        NAME                     READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
        nginx-5f7d5d7689-pz46n   1/1     Running   0          18s

    *   Expose the nginx container to the Internet

        kubectl expose deployment nginx --port 80 --type LoadBalancer

    *   View the new service to confirm the creation of the LoadBalancer

        kubectl get services
        
        Result:
        NAME         TYPE           CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)        AGE
        kubernetes   ClusterIP      10.51.240.1    <none>        443/TCP        4m2s
        nginx        LoadBalancer   10.51.254.77   <pending>     80:31094/TCP   12s
        
        It may take a few seconds before the External-IP field is populated for your service.
        This is normal. Just re-run the kubectl get services command every few seconds until the field is populated

        NAME         TYPE           CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP     PORT(S)        AGE
        kubernetes   ClusterIP      10.51.240.1    <none>          443/TCP        4m57s
        nginx        LoadBalancer   10.51.254.77   34.69.113.155   80:31094/TCP   67s

    *   Open a new web browser tab and paste your cluster's external IP address (34.69.113.155) into the address bar.
        The default home page of the Nginx browser is displayed.

        Result:
        Welcome to nginx!
        If you see this page, the nginx web server is successfully installed and working. Further configuration is required.

    *   Scale up the number of pods running on your service.

        kubectl scale deployment nginx --replicas 3

        Scaling up a deployment is useful when you want to increase available resources for an application that is becoming more popular.

    *   Confirm that Kubernetes has updated the number of pods

        kubectl get pods

        Result:
        NAME                     READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
        nginx-5f7d5d7689-9tz9f   1/1     Running   0          46s
        nginx-5f7d5d7689-g8q5g   1/1     Running   0          46s
        nginx-5f7d5d7689-pz46n   1/1     Running   0          4m8s

    *   Confirm that your external IP address has not changed

        kubectl get services

        Result:
        NAME         TYPE           CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP     PORT(S)        AGE
        kubernetes   ClusterIP      10.51.240.1    <none>          443/TCP        7m1s
        nginx        LoadBalancer   10.51.254.77   34.69.113.155   80:31094/TCP   3m11s

        Note: the external-IP for the LoadBalancer is unchanged even though the number of pods increased

    *   Return to the web browser tab in which you viewed your cluster's external IP address.
        Refresh the page to confirm that the nginx web server is still responding

# Congratulations

############################################################################################################################################
A Summary of all the codes that was executed:

TASK 1:

    export MY_ZONE=us-central1-a

    gcloud container clusters create webfrontend --zone $MY_ZONE --num-nodes 2

    kubectl version

    gcloud compute instances list

TASK 2:

    kubectl create deploy nginx --image=nginx:1.17.10

    kubectl get pods

    kubectl expose deployment nginx --port 80 --type LoadBalancer

    kubectl get services

    kubectl scale deployment nginx --replicas 3

    kubectl get pods

    kubectl get services
